ABBY: Previously on Dance Moms...
CATHY: Abby Lee draws on abs?
We have real abs.
Did you stand in the wings
and watch the group from Cathy's?
The bigger one in the middle,
that's who you're up against.
Your kids look really old.
MELISSA: And she doesn't seem like
she was from Cathy's studio at all.
Exactly.
She's at least 15.
How old is Erica and her date of birth?
-Erica is 14.
-WOMAN: Correct.
She is in the wrong age division.
I look like an idiot,
that I just can't win on our own talent.
CATHY: All right, listen, Nose.
-You've done nothing...
-I didn't want to...
-(interposing voices)
-...but complain about her, Abby.
-Be gone, witch!
-CATHY: I called....
You have no powers here!
ABBY: Things are going to be a little bit
different this time.
Maddie and Chloe will go head to head.
CATHY: We have our nemesis here again.
Boo. The Abby Lee Dance Company.
Boo.
I know you like to dance,
but could be something new
if you're over it.
Yell out your colors.
Panthers blue and gold.
ABBY: She should
have opened her mouth and said,
Abby, that is a mature 13-year-old.
We're trying to stand
behind Brooke in her decision.
And we want...
Right there, you're an (bleep)
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Get up♪
♪Get on the floor ♪
♪My world is with my girls♪
♪Living on the dancefloor ♪
ABBY: Girls!
Come on. Let's go.
Let's have a big round of applause.
(applause)
I think we made applesauce, don't you?
(laughing)
ABBY: Now, the group won.
They won the overall.
But you know what?
That was one competition.
For this week, we are going
to Starbound in New Jersey.
We walk into Starbound,
you need to be those national champions.
All right, on the bottom...
Nia, simply because of the mistake
in the choreography.
(muted music playing)
(intense music playing)
And that dance is easy.
It's simple.
NIA: I'm sad that I'm last this week
because I worked really hard
to get to the top,
and I went back to the bottom.
ABBY: Next I have Kendall.
You need to learn to read music,
and you need
to learn to hear the music.
Kendall did a big no-no
in the group dance.
Totally off the music.
She started four counts
ahead of everyone else.
8I'm going to keep her on probation.
Until I hand her that jacket,
she's still proving herself.
Paige, I've seen you do the press better.
I'm giving you the benefit of the doubt.
I thought you did a nice job.
Next, MacKenzie.
This week, you are not in the group.
You are going to do a solo.
All right.
Next I have Maddie.
You were the highest scoring number
in the entire competition.
Why do you think you're not on the top?
MADDIE: I actually want someone else
to be on the top
because I want someone else
to see what that feels
like, and be really happy, and getting
the star of the group dance.
ABBY: I want you to stop resting
on your laurels.
I want you to keep improving
for the next 20 years,
not for one competition.
Do you understand?
So, you impressed them.
I want you to impress me.
Maddie really should have been
on top of the pyramid this week
because she won.
I feel that Abby just wants
to give other kids a chance
on the pyramid.
She had to, of course,
make a little comment to Maddie,
but I'm sure it had nothing to do
with her dance skills.
Next I have Chloe.
Chloe, you didn't do a solo last week.
You were great in the group.
People are recognizing you
from the video,
but I want them to recognize you
for your dancing.
Understood?
CHRISTI: This is the first time Chloe
has ever been above Maddie
on the pyramid.
So it's like, celebration day.
Ice cream for everyone!
And on top of the pyramid
this week is Brooke.
You went out there.
You proved yourself.
I mean, you went from worst
to best in one week.
I think being at the top
means something to Brooke.
I mean, I think it means something
to every one of those kids.
You know, Brooke felt proud of herself
for finally making it to the top.
And that really made me feel happy.
ABBY: You're the oldest
person in this group.
You need to be the role model.
And that needs to continue.
BROOKE: Abby wants me to be a role model
for all the other girls,
but I really don't know if I want
to be a role model for them.
MacKenzie, you're doing
a routine called My Parade,
and it's all about you, kiddo.
You're going to March out from that corner
like you're the leader of the big parade.
Maddie, this week you're going
to be doing a jazz routine
to Lights Camera, Action.
Chloe, you're going to be doing
a lyrical routine
to Don't Catch Me.
Things are going to be a
little bit different this time.
Maddie and Chloe will go head to head,
so there's a lot at stake.
Chloe's so happy
she's having a lyrical solo.
CHRISTI: So once again,
you know, my daughter's
put head to head with Maddie.
But Chloe can beat Maddie.
If she would just go out there
and perform the piece
as we know she can, she will be fine.
Now, the group dance
that everybody's in except MacKenzie
is Born to Dance,
and it's about a child being born.
There's a little mystery to it.
CHRISTI:
These are little girls, and I'm not sure
that we should be bringing up
the birds and the bees.
That's health class, not dance class.
ABBY: Brooke, you're going to
be featured in this number,
but you should be the glue
that's holding it together.
And Maddie has been the glue
You need to be the most advanced one
in the group,
not looking around to see
what these two are doing.
Understood?
Brooke, don't let me down.
Moms, please go.
Girls, stretch out. Let's go.
(dance music playing)
("Sentimental" by Nikko Lowe playing)
ABBY: That's what I want to see.
SINGER: ♪First smile...♪
ABBY: Smile!
Walk back up!
This week's group routine
is called Born to Dance.
It's kind of provocative,
yet beautiful and wondrous,
and it's all done very artistically.
I want their costumes and the dancers
to appear as if they're just being born.
Go on your stomach.
GIRL:
It doesn't--she didn't really say what--
CHRISTI: Oh my God, Brooke's
in fetal position!
-(screaming)
-MELISSA: Oh my gosh.
(laughing)
CHRISTI: Electricity!
Did you see that?
Bring back electricity!
She just came out of the vagina.
She went like this.
Can I come out?
CHRISTI: Oh, my God.
I really worry that our girls
don't need to be exposed
to things too early.
I like that they're young,
and they're innocent,
and they're naive.
And there's no need to rush that.
ABBY: Five, six, seven, go.
Now, you need to plie, Chloe.
You do.
Saute and saute.
And run, run,
(indistinct) grande jete.
Bah-ah.
CHRISTI: I know you try to
pretend like, you know,
everything's okay, but you're not upset
at all that Maddie wasn't
at the top after doing such a good job?
Maddie had the highest
score of the day,
but Brooke was fabulous.
And I can't take that away from her.
KELLY: But her and Brooke
were only one point apart.
Oh, I know that.
I guess I'm a little perturbed.
I think it's not fair,
but I want to give another kid
another chance.
It's definitely not a fair thing.
So that's why I don't think
the pyramid is a fair thing.
I think the pyramid sucks.
My daughter's a natural.
And let's just see what happens.
That's the furthest down Maddie's
ever been on the pyramid.
I think this is a little hard on Melissa.
Melissa is used to
Maddie being the best.
She lets us know that Maddie
is the best at every chance she gets.
And right now, Brooke's the best.
ABBY: Up, up!
Roll, Brooke.
Plie, plie. Lock the back
of your knee, Brooke.
(indistinct) swing it through.
BROOKE: I really appreciate that Abby
put me on top of the pyramid
this week,
but Abby's being really hard on me.
One, two, three, four.
Where are your feet?
Look at your feet, Brooke.
Ball change, plie.
The lower you plie, and get
your butt underneath you, Brooke.
BROOKE: I'm just wondering if I should go
off and do other things,
like cheerleading.
ABBY: And one.
Developpe two.
(intense music playing)
(marching band playing)
(cheering)
BROOKE: I ended up going to the football
game after rehearsal,
but Abby's yelling at me a lot, saying
that I have to stay focused
and don't worry
about missing football games and stuff.
CHEER MOM:
So, are you gonna try out?
For what?
CHEER MOM: For cheer.
The real ticket?
CHEER MOM: School cheer.
I don't know.
I know you like to dance,
but could be something new
if you're over it.
-Mm-hmm.
-Mm-hmm?
Totally.
BROOKE: Dancing is hard
because you have to go
to rehearsal every single day.
And I'm always missing all the parties
and, like, the football games
and stuff, but all my friends get to go
and they're all cheerleaders.
So it's just really hard.
CHEER COACH: Girls, spread out!
CHEER SQUAD: F R H S we are!
BROOKE: I'm curious to see if cheerleading
is going to be something fun for me.
I might be able to hang out
with my friends more.
And it could be something
that I'd love to do.
(bright music playing)
KELLY: What are you doing, Peanut?
BROOKE: My homework.
Cheerleading tryouts are coming up.
When are the tryouts?
The same day as the competition.
KELLY: You're at the top
of the pyramid this week.
-So not only do I have to tell her...
-I didn't schedule them.
...you're going to cheerleading tryouts,
but you have to skip the competition.
I don't ever want her
to come back to me and say,
you made me go away
for the dance competition
so I didn't get to try out
for cheerleading.
And I regret not doing anything
like that in my high school years.
So I need Brooke to make that decision.
You're like the lead in the dance,
for once in your life.
Do you realize, like,
she's going to kill us?
BROOKE: I really don't want
to ruin our group number
and hurt my team, but also cheerleading
could be something
that I'm really interested in.
KELLY: You do realize, though,
that if I tell Abby that you're not
going because
you're going to cheerleading,
she probably won't let you back
in the studio.
(dramatic music playing)
(dance music playing)
ABBY: Clean it up.
Ready?
And go.
One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight.
I'm excited that I have a solo this week.
Big!
McKenzie really proved herself
in the group dance,
so she's being rewarded with a solo.
It's called Showtime,
but it's about the leader of the band.
She has her own parade,
she's coming down the street.
It's adorable.
I just hope she remembers it.
MacKenzie, do you understand
that last year
you were like a little baby?
This is for the Abby
Lee Dance Company.
Everybody's going to know
that you're my student.
And you're the youngest one I'm taking.
Get it?
Don't let me down.
I am totally ready to dance
with the big girls.
(playful music playing)
KELLY: Cheers!
It's 5 o'clock somewhere, right?
WOMAN: Right. Yes.
I talked to Brooke last night.
She's just had it with Abby, telling her
how she's not the leader of the group.
And I mean, I know she's on the top
of the pyramid this week,
but she just keeps downgrading her.
And she's at the point that she wants
to try out for cheerleading.
The problem is our competition
this Saturday.
I feel like if I don't send her,
that she's going to blame me
and be like, you know, I wanted
to try out for cheerleading.
You wouldn't let me.
But then on the other hand,
I feel bad for the group.
MELISSA: If Maddie came to me and said
she wanted to pursue something else
besides dance,
I wouldn't allow her to do it
in the middle of any season.
It lets down the group if you are not
committed to the whole season.
I personally don't think
she's going to like it,
but I need her to find
that out on her own.
Abby is going to cream you.
And I'm prepared for that,
as long as I'm doing
-what's right for my kid.
-Absolutely.
Well, we'll be there to support you.
Then you're making the right decision.
("Lights, Camera, Action"
by Analogue Revolution playing)
SINGER: ♪ Lights, camera, action♪
♪Lights are flashing ♪
♪Swagger down the runway...♪
MADDIE: My solo this week is called
Lights, Camera, Action,
and it's a jazz dance.
I don't really have jazz solos,
so I don't really know what it's like.
But I actually like this one.
SINGER: ♪Before the stars come out
at night ♪
ABBY: Uh uh. Uh uh.
You're going to the corner.
Wake up.
MADDIE: I'm nervous to compete
against Chloe again
because she's a really good dancer,
but I'm not intimidated by anyone.
SINGER: ♪ Fabulous, oh, oh ♪
ABBY: That's enough for tonight.
MELISSA: Maddie and Chloe are always
competing against one another.
They both want to win first place and say,
I won first place and you didn't.
But Maddie is definitely dancing
at a higher level
than she did last year.
She has a good opportunity
at this competition.
(suspenseful music playing)
("Don't Catch Me"
by Kadie Hodges playing)
CHLOE: This week I'm doing
a solo called Don't Catch Me,
and it's lyrical, and I really like it.
SINGER: ♪Don't catch me now♪
CHLOE: This week, Maddie and I
are competing in the same age category,
and I have a lot of confidence in myself
because I'm doing a lyrical routine
and she's doing a jazz routine.
I think I have a good chance of winning.
SINGER: ♪Keep on falling ♪
CHRISTI: I think that Chloe
can out-dance Maddie.
I think she is going to give
her a run for her money.
(suspenseful music playing)
ABBY: Tomorrow
we're leaving for competition.
We have 45 minutes to work
on this dance, and that's it.
You will be on stage.
Understood?
All right, let's go.
(dance music playing)
Head up.
Kendall, you're right behind Chloe.
You should be beyond her.
Stop!
Where's Brooke?
I'm really not sure if Brooke wants
to be part of our group still.
She'll sometimes say, I hate dance.
Depends what day it is.
I think that's what being
a teenager is all about.
Hello ladies.
DANCE MOMS: Hi!
Well, we filled Holly in.
HOLLY: I'm shocked just finding out
that Brooke isn't going to be here
for this number,
and I know Abby doesn't know that,
and I can only imagine
once Abby finds out,
she is going to lose it.
Oh!
She's gonna be really mad.
I've never seen you back down to Abby.
Absolutely.
Maddie, turn the leg out!
What is wrong with you?
Oh, my God.
You better get down there
before it gets worse.
Brooke!
KELLY: What's she yelling?
-Uh oh, she's calling Brooke.
-Brooke!
We have a standing rule
for our competition team members:
you must be present at the rehearsal
before the competition.
So whatever that final rehearsal is,
the last time we run that number,
that's how we're going to do it on stage.
Let me go find out where Brooke is.
I'm going to chew her mother out.
Kelly?
Yeah?
ABBY: I need to know
what's going on with Brooke.
You're too high.
Don't pick them up that high.
Where is Brooke?
Well, that's what
I want to talk to you about.
I don't think
she's coming this weekend.
(intensifying music playing)
KELLY: We had a long discussion,
and there's something that came up
at school that she wants to do.
And I'm going to allow her to do it.
-Uh-oh. Wait a second.
-Uh huh.
So she's out.
You're making a decision for me
and for everybody
in this group.
You're letting a 13-year-old kid dictate
my future and their future.
But I'm letting
my 13-year-old dictate her future.
She knew when she was at the top
of the pyramid.
And this is where
it's bad parenting, Kelly.
She should have opened her mouth
and said, Abby, let somebody else
be at the top of the pyramid this week.
That Is a mature 13-year-old.
Not screwing everybody
and stabbing them in the back.
But I don't think
she's screwing any of them.
She's screwing me.
I can feel it.
Uh-oh.
Okay now she's going at it.
Oh, she's pissed.
ABBY: You're gonna do your solo.
And you're going to do a solo.
You're staying home,
staying home, staying home.
That's it.
You're dismissed.
Run the solo.
Get the senior company in here.
Let's go.
Thank you, Kelly.
So in true Abby spirit,
she has decided
to handle the situation
by eliminating the group number
as a whole.
-Can we talk to you for a moment?
-Certainly.
HOLLY: Okay, Thank you Abby.
Well, we just wanted to clarify
because we noticed
-that Kendall, Nia, and Paige were...
-ABBY: Dismissed.
They are dismissed.
You will not be traveling this weekend.
Well, Melissa and I
aren't going for a solo.
ABBY: I do not want to go back
to a competition that we won,
the Nationals,
without my best foot forward.
We're trying to stand behind
Brooke in her decision and we...
Well, I think you're an (bleep)
You're an ass.
Why would you stand behind
Brooke in her decision?
Because--because...
You're teaching a kid to break a contract.
-No.
-Yes, you are.
No, we're teaching our kids
that you support your friends.
Well, when your kid
gets a full scholarship to Harvard
and Brooke's going to community college
like her mother,
go with her and support your friends.
Christi opens her mouth.
Oh, well, we support her decision.
Yeah, because you want your kid
to get the lead, Christi.
We know!
We know how you work.
-That feels ridiculous.
-We're saying we're a team.
Well, you can go be a team
at another dance studio,
because at this studio,
it's my way or the highway.
(suspenseful music playing)
CHRISTI: We're saying
that we're a team, and...
Well, you can go be a team
in another dance studio,
because at this studio,
it's my way or the highway.
That's it.
I've made up my mind.
If we can't walk in there
national champions
with a number that I know can win,
then I don't want to go.
So, we are the National winners.
I don't want to tarnish that reputation.
Maddie is their national title winner.
I don't want her to look bad.
And Gianna is going to go.
My name will not be on the number.
HOLLY:
So first it was, the group was not going.
Now the group is going,
but the group can only go
if her name is removed
and she's not doing any choreography.
And that's the ultimate slap
in the face for the girls.
Gianna is willing to
come in tomorrow morning...
and rehearse for four hours
before you get on the bus.
The mothers have made it quite clear
that they think that their kids
are amazing
with or without Brooke.
If Gianna wants to
get up in the morning
and come here and work on
this number, that's fine.
Because I cannot let Brooke
hold back these other dancers.
I would never let my child
shake her pompoms for some boy
to go to college for free.
I know that, Abby,
and I need her to make that decision
on her own.
ABBY: You make a commitment
in the beginning of the year,
you see it through
til the end of the year.
If you don't want to do it
again next year, that's fine.
There's integrity there.
Brooke should have come and told me.
Would I have been angry?
Yes, but it would have
been the right move
on her part and her parents.
Enough said.
(suspenseful music playing)
("Sentimental"
by Nikko Lowe playing)
GIANNA: In, out.
Releve. Leg high.
MADDIE: I don't really think it's that
stressful not having Brooke.
She finally got a chance to
be like the star of the group dance.
And now I feel bad
because I'm doing it.
PAIGE: I feel bad that Brooke
has to make this decision,
but I'll support her any way she wants
to go because she's my sister.
-Thank you, Gia.
-Where did you want our tag?
NIA: Keep believing Miss Abby.
We can pull it off and we'll win, still.
(inspirational music playing)
HOLLY: Hey, girls!
How was rehearsal?
Gianna leading the troops.
I arrive at the studio
to go on the bus.
There's no Abby.
I'm feeling pretty relaxed.
This could work out okay.
ALL: Move that bus!
(laughing)
But why can't you let me sit?
GIRL: Mom, come back through.
(screaming)
(dramatic music playing)
GIRL: Wait, Abby's here!
MELISSA: No way!
-Oh, my gosh!
-MADDIE: Pretend you're sleeping!
(yelling)
Oh, why's she here?
Oh, that just ruined my weekend.
Give me your (indistinct)
ABBY: Hello, everybody.
GIRL: Hi Ab.
I have decided to go
because you have no idea
what it's going to be like
in New Jersey, number one.
I really didn't want to get on the bus,
but I could not throw Gianna
to the wolves.
She does not deserve that.
Kelly is not here?
You really know what person
is important in your house, don't you?
HOLLY: Those feelings of euphoria
were short-lived.
What a way to start a trip.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Bus driver Jim!
Are we there yet?
-WOMAN: I think right there.
-WOMAN: What do you want to do, like--
-WOMAN: Just put a line.
-WOMAN: Like here?
WOMAN: Yep.
MELISSA: This is Cathy
from Candy Apple that's calling me.
-ABBY: No!
-JILL: No!
-No way!
-Second time.
ABBY: Do not give her any information.
Why is she calling you?
That is so unethical.
Hi!
How often does she call her?
Melissa gets this phone call
from Cathy of all people.
Why does Cathy have your number?
CATHY: I was thinking maybe
there would be a time
that we could get the girls together.
Maybe meet halfway somewhere?
Okay. Sounds good.
I can't believe that Melissa
is talking to her like that.
MELISSA:
Are you going to a competition?
CATHY: We are,
we're going to a competition.
We're heading to, um, New Jersey.
MELISSA: Oh, you are.
ABBY: I am livid because Cathy's
on her way to New Jersey,
and she's going to show up again
with these older kids
who are more Brooke's age
than they are Maddie's age.
And Brooke won't be there.
Okay. Bye!
ABBY: Do not let her know
that Brooke is not in this number,
because she will have a field day
with that.
Of all weeks for Brooke
to go for cheerleading tryouts,
you know the Candy Apples,
they're coming for blood.
They want to beat us.
And this may be an opportunity for them
because we were blocked
getting on the bus.
I hate to say it,
but this could be Cathy's week.
ABBY:
I'm telling you one thing.
That Candy Appple lady,
I don't care what she does.
She better not beat you.
Because you think I'm mad
at Brooke now, just wait.
If that woman wins,
Brooke's hide'll be hanging off the top
of that balcony at that studio.
(suspenseful music playing)
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: We're traveling to Starbound
in Nutley, New Jersey.
(indistinct)
ABBY: We are the reigning
national winners.
That's what we won at Lake Tahoe.
There are people at Starbound
who are expecting to see more.
-Ready to do some dancing?
-(indistinct chatter)
ABBY: We need to walk in there
and show them that we've grown.
So there's a lot at stake.
WOMAN: Want her to wear those?
Okay. Perfect.
HOLLY: I think it looks nice
and sophisticated plain.
-WOMAN: Thank you.
-ABBY: All right, girls,
remember, this is Starbound.
You are their national winners.
You can't be any less than that,
do you understand?
ALL: Yes.
Remember, Brooke never existed.
They have no idea
we're missing a dancer.
We cannot and will not
have little mistakes like that.
You cannot afford it this weekend.
Does everyone...
CHRISTI: The pressure on the girls
this week is tremendous.
They're going to need a back brace
by the end of the week
with all the pressure
Abby is putting on their shoulders.
Like, you must win.
You must be fabulous.
You must be. You must be.
You must be.
CATHY: We have our...
nemesis here again this week.
-How did that happen?
-ALL: Boo.
The Abby Lee Dance Company.
Boo.
We cannot get beat
by a hokeypokey number again.
It's just not going to be good for us.
Do not talk to them backstage.
Do not let her psych you out.
So, lucky us, we get to see
those Candy Apples again.
I'm not going to start anything
with Cathy,
but certainly if Cathy starts with me,
I'm not backing down from Cathy.
JILL: I just don't appreciate
all the low blows
she did with MacKenzie.
She did low blows with Chloe.
She's a low blower.
Like, if--if my nose is so...
She's a low blower!
She is a low blower.
Is Mackenzie ready?
ABBY: Yes, Mackenzie's ready.
Straight legs, pointed feet,
shoulders down.
If you forget, stay backstage.
Don't come out.
Because I'm going to chop
your head off. Go!
-(crowd cheering)
-(intense music playing)
Who's gonna take my boots?
I'm very nervous that MacKenzie's
going to forget her solo on stage,
and I don't think
she's just going to ad lib.
I think she'll just run off
the stage if she forgets.
-Smile. Okay?
-Okay!
Have fun.
There's one part in my dance
that's really hard.
It's a round of back handspring.
I'm going to show everyone
that I'm the best.
ANNOUNCER: (indistinct)
next up to the stage.
Ages 7 and 8, number 321.
(intense music playing)
(jazz music playing)
(crowd cheering)
Yay, Mackenzie!
MacKenzie nailed her side aerials
and, you know, she nailed
that back handspring, too.
So she's really come a long way
in a short amount of time.
You know, ladies, that this row
was reserved for us, just FYI.
You were supposed to have this row
and we were supposed to have this row.
Well, until I see a plate
on the back of this chair
with your name on it that you bought it,
I'm not moving.
CHLOE: I guess I'm having
more confidence in myself,
because backstage
I'm not as nervous anymore.
My nerves are more settled.
I just go over the dance
and kind of have fun.
This week,
I think I'm going to be (indistinct)
ANNOUNCER: Thanks.
That was number 322
with "Don't Touch Me."
(crowd cheering)
CHRISTI: Today Chloe and Maddie
are going to be competing their solos.
And I think Chloe is actually
holding up really well today.
I don't see any signs of nerves.
I think that she is ready
to hit that stage,
and she's ready to show everyone
what she's made of.
(dramatic music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Dreaming of you ♪
♪ Can this be true? ♪
♪ So don't pull out your hands ♪
♪ Because I don't want to land ♪
♪ Just let me keep falling, falling ♪
♪ So don't catch me now ♪
♪ I just want to keep falling somehow ♪
♪ So don't stop me now ♪
♪ I just want to keep
this going somehow ♪
♪ Keep on falling in love ♪
♪ With you ♪
(crowd cheering)
ABBY:
Chloe's solo again was beautiful.
She's striking on stage.
I saw a few things that she did wrong.
Otherwise,
she did a really nice job.
ANNOUNCER: Judges,
please move down four score sheets
to number 324.
CHRISTI: I thought Chloe's solo
was beautiful.
I loved her costume.
I thought she did great.
But my daughter's number one
in my eyes all the time.
MADDIE: I feel very confident
competing against Chloe.
I'm really prepared for my solo.
And I think I'm going to do very good.
And even though it's Jazz,
I think I'll pull it off.
ANNOUNCER:
Jazz ages nine and 10, number 324.
"Lights, Camera, Action."
MELISSA:
Maddie has pressure this week.
She's the title winner to Starbound,
the National title winner.
And she has to dance fabulous.
SINGER:
♪ Lights, camera, action ♪
♪ Lights are flashing ♪
♪ Swaggar down the runway ♪
♪ Check the fashion ♪
♪ Nothing ever out of place ♪
♪ That's the life for me ♪
♪ That's the life for me, me, me ♪
♪ Come on, gimme gimme lights,
camera, action ♪
♪ That's where everything happens ♪
♪ I need to live in that life
so glamorous ♪
♪ It's a rush ♪
♪ Gimme gimme lights,
camera, action ♪
♪ That's when everything happens ♪
♪ Take my picture ♪
♪ Make sure I'm fabulous ♪
♪ Fabulous ♪
♪ Oh, oh ♪
(crowd clapping)
ABBY: Maddie looked like
the entertainment that was paid,
and hired, and flown in from Vegas
to perform at this competition.
What was wrong about it?
WOMAN: It was great!
It felt weird.
It didn't look weird.
I like when you do jazz.
-I don't.
-I know.
Abby Lee!
Abby Lee! Oh, I like that.
(moms hiss)
Brooke is not here.
-Did anybody notice that?
-CANDY APPLES: No.
(indistinct) You noticed, Justice?
Yeah, well maybe they're realizing that
Abby isn't the spectacular end-all
that she claims to be.
You know what?
I'll bet you Brooke's trying out
for cheerleader.
(calm music playing)
ALL: Two, three, four.
(cheering)
BROOKE: Today I'm trying out
for cheerleading,
and I'm kind of nervous
because I've never cheered before.
(cheering)
COACH: Say the words, 24.
ALL: Go Blue!
-Go, go, go.
-Punches by your ear!
ALL: Go, go, go.
COACH: Pick it up!
KELLY:
If Abby didn't treat Brooke the way
she treats her all the time,
and knocked her down
year after year after year,
Brooke wouldn't want to do cheerleading.
Number 3, may I see your jump?
Thank you.
Number 24, your jump.
(cheering)
COACH: Say the words.
-I can't hear 24.
-I can hear one girl.
I don't hear 3 or 24.
-24 maybe smiled once.
-Okay.
24, can you call the chant for us?
Just to make sure she can talk.
Yell out your colors.
Panthers blue and gold.
Okay. 24, please call that again.
Yell out your colors.
Panthers blue and gold.
Well, that time it was better.
If I don't make the cheer team,
I'm going to feel pretty bad
because I let all my teammates down.
COACH: All right girls,
these are the girls who made it.
You are just going to stand up
when you make it.
If you didn't make it,
please gather your things.
Thanks for coming.
Number 3, number 22, number 9,
number 20, number 4, number 8.
(intense music swelling)
And number 24.
Thank you, girls.
I made the cheer team!
I'm so excited to get my uniform
and pompoms.
Girls that made it, congratulations.
We're going to have a great year.
-Are you excited?
-ALL: Yeah.
COACH: Okay.
You have a lot to learn.
KELLY:
I am so happy for Brooke.
She really deserves this.
But another part of me is upset
because she's walking away
from something that has been part
of her entire life.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER:
The top Junior petite soloist today,
it's going to 321!
Bigger isn't better!
It's Makenzie from Abby Lee Dance!
MELISSA: MacKenzie won her age division,
seven to eight.
My little girl did fabulous.
-You excited?
-Yeah.
I felt great when they said
that the winner is me.
I think I'm going to win a lot
of competitions like Maddie.
ABBY: McKenzie has definitely improved
this year,
and she wants to dance.
That's what's making
all the difference in the world.
ANNOUNCER:
Top 10 Junior Soloists.
Third place.
324, "Lights, Camera, Action"
Maddie from Abby Lee.
MELISSA: Maddie came
in third place this week.
She was actually flawless.
Something was definitely off
with these judges.
I definitely think she was gypped.
ANNOUNCER:
Second place, Junior Soloist.
"If You Believe."
-It's Eunice from Dancers in Motion.
-(cheering)
ANNOUNCER:
And our top soloist,
it's Chloe from Abby Lee Dance!
(cheering)
CHRISTI: Chloe came in first, and...
it was just such a proud moment for me.
It really was.
I've wanted that for her.
I've wanted her
to just believe in herself.
And it was such a good feeling.
This is based on dancing.
And Chloe danced the best today.
How do you feel about that score?
Awesome.
It felt really good
to get overall first place.
There was a lot of good girls
at the competition,
so I was really surprised
and happy at the same time.
MELISSA: I really don't care
that Chloe beat Maddie.
I am not pissed that she didn't win.
She won in my eyes.
But Abby told me
the reason she didn't win
was because she looked professional.
She didn't look like the amateurs
that were dancing against her.
ANNOUNCER:
Take a bow for your audience.
ABBY:
Maddie was pretty amazing.
Chloe screwed up
this big turn section
that she does to lunge on the floor.
I want Chloe to have confidence,
but I want that confidence
to come from within,
not from winning trophies.
(cheering)
(suspenseful music playing)
ABBY: Girls, come here.
Now, listen to me.
I wasn't going to come
because I was so aggravated
with this routine.
Not only do you have
to prove Brooke wrong,
that she's worthless
and doesn't mean anything,
everyone's replaceable.
The way I choreographed the routine
is the way it should have been competed.
We all make choices.
And we have to live with those choices.
So let's go.
-MELISSA: Let's go.
-Thank you.
(indistinct) stage.
You're ready to head backstage
and warm up backstage,
-all right?
-Okay. Just stay clean.
CANDY APPLE DANCER:
You guys did good. Good job.
I think the Candy Apples
would do pretty good this week
because last week
their group number was pretty good.
I'm a little worried about them
at the competition,
but I'm just going to hope
for the best, do my best,
and see what happens.
ANNOUNCER:
Next up, number 460, Mermaids.
(cheering)
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY:
Candy Apples turned into mermaids.
Jumped, kicked, leaped, turned.
Jumped, kicked, leaped, turned
(indistinct) on (indistinct) off.
Same old, same old.
(dramatic music playing)
(cheering)
ABBY:
I just hope that the judges realize
that Vivianne was used as a human prop
to bring the age level down,
and those girls should not
be competing in 9 and 10.
I'm very confident that we get to compete
against Candy Apples.
I have no fears.
I want to show them what we've got.
ANNOUNCER: (indistinct)
(cheering)
(dramatic music playing)
SINGER: ♪ What would you do ♪
♪ If I told you ♪
♪ I just knew ♪
♪ That somehow you changed me ♪
♪ In some special way? ♪
♪ Would you say I was silly? ♪
♪ A sentimental fool? ♪
♪ Or would you say ♪
♪ I was hoping ♪
♪ And praying ♪
♪ For someone like you... ♪
♪ I guess that's just something ♪
♪ Something that ♪
♪ I'll never know ♪
(cheering)
ABBY:
This group went to a competition
with a routine that was designed
specifically to feature Brooke,
and that group succeeded
without her.
Check this out, Junior Groups.
NIA: Candy Apples
isn't going to beat us.
They're not taking us down.
We're taking them down.
Eighth place,
with a score of 279,
it's the Mermaid's,
Candy Apples Dance.
(applause)
How do you like them apples?
Top overall Junior group,
Born to Dance,
Abby Lee Dance Company.
Make some noise!
(cheering)
ABBY: Born to Dance
won the entire thing.
So we not only beat Cathy
and her Candy Apples,
but we also beat everybody else
that was at the competition
at Nutley, New Jersey.
Tell everybody
what studio you're from.
ALL:
Abby Lee Dance Company!
There is your top junior overall group.
Take one more bow
for your audience.
Thank you very much, ladies.
(cheering)
(excitedly screaming)
Yay, girls!
Woohoo!
Cathy was sitting right behind me.
She did not know what to do.
Abby, did she congratulate you?
She never said congratulations to me.
So as a sign of good sportsmanship,
come on, we're going to go tell her
that our kids did a great job.
I went to the dressing room
to see Cathy
because I want the bee costume back.
Hello!
ABBY: All right, we just wanted
to tell you all congratulations.
I thought you did a great job.
I don't know what happened.
But anyway,
do you have my bee costume?
You mean, hold on,
the ugly bee costume that Vivi wore?
-Yes. It was her first solo.
-I gave it to the Goodwill.
That was $300.
Bill me.
It's a memory. It's irreplaceable.
Listen, disco ball,
I'm not talking to you today.
This is between Abby and I,
so pipe down.
-You need...
-Disco ball.
CHRISTI: Cathy is just a rude,
mean little woman.
She is a nasty, old bat.
CATHY: By the way, Christi,
Whoville called
and they want your nose back.
Oh, my God, Cathy, listen.
When you have a better insult,
something that is...
I'm not--I'm not listening to you anymore.
When you have a better insult
that's at least...
CATHY:
Please, get out of my face.
Oh, no, I'll get right in your face.
-Oh, no, you won't, disco ball.
-Bring it, bitch.
You know, that's wonderful
that you talk like that
in front of your kids,
but we don't talk like that
-in front of ours, do we, moms?
-CHRISTI: I know.
Well, you know what, Cathy?
The dog pound is calling.
-Move along.
-Oh, my God.
-Do not put your hands on me.
-Get out of my face.
Your Payless shoes
need to walk out of here.
Oh, my God,
all you care about is money.
I'm not talking about money!
Oh, my God,
that's all you talk about.
You obviously have a complexity issue.
I'm talking about style,
and you have none.
-Take your hand off of me.
-You know what?
Take your hand off of me.
Cathy brought that icy cold,
bony little hand around me.
It was like the grim reaper
was holding onto my wrist. Ugh.
Move along, disco ball.
Oh, my God, you wish!
Guess what, Cathy,
you can't beat us.
So go home. Stop trying. Give up.